Michael Albert
Ms. King
LA 10 Honors
20 May 2019
the Lords of the Lies
In The Lord of the Flies by William Golding the underlying meanings of Ralph and Jack show how when society is left to fend for itself, there is a struggle between order, and uncontrolled pleasure and chaos. This inevitably affects the society that they lead in negative ways, affecting their ability to save themselves repeatedly, with Jack trying to keep people happy, and Ralph trying to establish rules.
Ralph shows how society tries to maintain order, and how when he loses control, one sees the brutality of human nature, serving as a clear example of the ego in Freud’s model of psyche. Ralph tries to maintain order, as he is the one who establishes that in order to survive, they “ought to have a chief to decide things” (28). Ralph embodies the “ego” aspect of human psychology, in that there always needs to be a part of us that regulates our actions. This part of people ensures that the survival instincts are balanced with our ability to think rationally, finding an equilibrium, allowing for survival, in a sustainable ‘long-run’ manner. Unfortunately, Ralph is the only one willing to keep his priorities straight, claiming that “[They’ve] got to make certain [that there’s not a beast]. Can't you see the mountain? There's no signal showing. There may be a ship out there.” (38). The very fact that Ralph is trying to keep the idea of salvation in the forefront of the people’s minds shows how he is clearly the only thing keeping them from descending into chaos. The purpose of the ego is to suppress the id, which is symbolized by the boy’s desire of immediate pleasure, and lack of responsibility or comprehension of consequences. Ralph is, therefore, an example of the ego, a psychological element whose sole purpose is to keep the id in order and to think long-term, without him, the society would crumble, fitting the scene to the Freud’s Model.
Jack demonstrates how when humanity is subjected to control, there is an inner desire to rebel, which in Freud’s Model is represented by the id. When Jack is left to manage the signal fire, he ends up abandoning his post, and goes “hunting and let out the fire” (99). When Jack is left responsible for something as crucially important, yet trivial as the SOS fire, his innate instinct to focus on short term kicks in. In Freud’s Model, the id is the most basic animal part of the human brain, the part that guarantees immediate survival needs, and maintains happiness, it is oftentimes not the part of the psyche one would want in control. The moment Jack gets a hand on the metaphorical wheel, he starts a murderous circle around Simon, yelling “Kill the beast! Cut his throat! Spill his blood!” (217). Simon has now become the embodiment of the beast for them, and through this, one sees Jack and his followers unleash their will onto him in order to immediately relieve themselves from the alleged beast. The instinct to kill Simon is definitely not one of reason or morals, and is in fact the opposite, which reiterates that Jack is a representation of immediate pleasure, and thus the id. Through his repeated inability to care about anything, Jack has shown a clear inability to care or listen to long term goals, reason, or morals, which in a clear and direct manner point to him being the id in the human psyche.
William Golding has illustrated a clear connection between human nature (according to Freud's interpretation of the human psyche), and the characters in the Lord of the Flies. The fact of the matter is that when humans are left to fend for themselves, we begin to exemplify certain aspects of our own mind. This is the case for both Jack, and Ralph, who both are forced against each other through the argument of “long term goals” versus “immediate satisfaction”.  
Works Cited
Golding, William. Lord of the Flies, 1954. Print. 

